<!-- # Lesson 8.7 - Mobile Views, Embed Visuals, and Joins between Tables -->

### Lesson Overview

<br>

The purpose of this lesson is to make the students use some advanced features of sharing dashboards. We will specifically talk about Mobile View and the way to embed your visualizations and dashboards online to web pages. We will also show the students how to get data from different tables and create joins and relationships between those tables.

<br><br>

### Learning Objectives

<br>

By the end of this lesson, students will be able to:

- Configure with advanced settings the Power BI Desktop
- Use Mobile Views
- Embed Dashboards to Web Pages
- Import data from multiple tables
- Create and edit relationships between tables

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 1

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 1 </summary>

<br>

We got familiarized with some Power BI Desktop configuration settings. Now, go ahead and explore:

- What are Global DirectQuery options used for?
- What are the three different privacy levels for the data sources and how does it work?

Prepare to share with the class.

</details>

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 2

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 2 </summary>

<br>

In groups of 2-3, answer the following questions and prepare to share with the class.

- What are the different kinds of _joins_ in SQL?
- What could be a use case for each of them?

</details>

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 3

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 3 </summary>

<br>

- What are Primary Keys and Foreign keys?
- What are some of their important properties?

</details>

<br><br>

## Additional Resources

<br>

- [Intro to SQL Joins (PPTX)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12k_oFbPgHXYa8h0mSpz5IoLRjs86bKO1/view?ts=60d9d320)
