<!-- # Lesson 7.3 - Power BI Intro -->

### Lesson Overview

<br>

The purpose of this lesson is to give a short introduction to Power BI and the differences between the different products that are offered in the Power BI ecosystem including PBI services and PBI PRO. Students will start using some of the basic Power BI interfaces and learn how to get the data from different sources.

<br><br>

### Learning Objectives

<br>

By the end of this lesson, students will be able to:

- Understand basics of Power BI and the workflow in the PBI
- Distinguish between different PBI products (Desktop, Pro, Premium, Mobile, Embedded)
- Leverage between the Power BI desktop and PBI services understanding the main features of both
- Get data from different resources (file, databases, power platform, azure, online services, ...)
- Use basic Power BI interface (common tasks - File, home, insert, modeling, view, help, canvas area, filters pane, visualizations pane, ...)

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 1

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions  </summary>

<br>

Answer the following questions:

1. Which of the following is not a building block of Power BI?
   - Visualizations
   - Datasets
   - Reports
   - Dashboards
   - Tiles
   - None of the above
2. Components of Power BI include Power Query, Power Pivot, Power View, Power Map, and Power Q&A. What are these components. Do your research and read about them. Discuss the components in class

Refer to the link for help: [Components of Power BI by Intellipaat](https://intellipaat.com/blog/tutorial/power-bi-tutorial/components-of-power-bi/)

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 2

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 2 </summary>

<br>

1. Which of the following are data sources that can be used in Power BI?

   - Excel
   - Csv
   - Power BI datasets
   - web
   - SQL Server
   - all of the above

2. What can be some of the possible consequences of using the data that is not clean? You can also refer to it as dirty data, inconsistent data, or poor quality data. Think about cases for eg. missing values in the dataset, data with outliers, text information that is not standardized, etc.

Refer to the following links for reference:

- [Most common types of dirty data and how to clean them](https://www.ringlead.com/blog/the-7-most-common-types-of-dirty-data-and-how-to-clean-them/)
- [What is dirty data](https://towardsdatascience.com/what-is-dirty-data-d96abbdf254e)

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 3

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 3 </summary>

<br>

1. What is a Power BI report view and what is it used for?
2. Pick any 5 visualization types available in Power BI and describe what they are and how and when are they used (for what kind of data and to conduct what kind of analysis).
   For eg., a scatter plot is used to check the relationship between two variables ie., how a change in one variable impacts the other. Pie charts are used for understanding percentage shares between things.
   Do your own research and discuss.

</details>

<br><br>

<!-- <br><br>

## Additional Resources

<br>

TBD -->
