<!-- # Lesson 7.5 - Manipulating Data with Power BI -->

### Lesson Overview

<br>

The purpose of this lesson is to identify the various data types available in Power BI and to learn their properties. The students will also develop knowledge about basic data profiling and manipulate data using PBI.

<br><br>

### Learning Objectives

<br>

By the end of this lesson, students will be able to:

- Identify the types and properties of data in PBI
- Examine data structures
- Identify data anomalies
- Manipulate data using PBI

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 1

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 1 </summary>

<br>

In the lesson, we spoke about some of the data types that are there in Power BI. We did not speak about Binary type though. Do the research and respond to the following questions (and learn much more):

- What is a binary type?
- What could be some possible use cases for it?

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 2

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 2 </summary>

<br>

Take a look at this dataset:
`84, 87, 67, 99, 87, 76, 93, 84, 87, 99, 84`.

<br>

1. Can data have more than one _mode_? We see in the previous dataset that both, 87 and 84, are represented three times each. What would be the mode in this case?
2. Find the mean and median in the above case as well.
3. How would the mean and median change if the dataset was `84, 87, 67, 99, 87, 76, 93, 84, 87, 99, 84, 10`?
   - Do you see any change in the values of mean and median?
   - Can you see the effect of _outliers_ in the data?

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 3 </summary>

<br>

1. What are the different standard filters available in Power BI?
2. What are the differences between filters and slicers?

</details>

<br><br>

## Additional Resources

- [PowerBI Slicers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/visuals/power-bi-visualization-slicers)
