<!-- # Lesson 8.3 - Power BI Stores and Visualizations -->

### Lesson Overview

<br>

In this lesson, students will learn how to use the store of graphics provided in the Power BI and, based on the provided data, choose which type of visualization to use to properly showcase what has been requested from them.

<br><br>

### Learning Objectives

<br>

By the end of this lesson, students will be able to:

- Use store of graphics insider Power BI
- Choose the right visualization for your data
<!-- - Create reports in Power BI Desktop -->

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 1

> :clock10: 10 min (+ 10 min Review)

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 1 </summary>

<br>

For this activity, we will use another dataset `population_by_zipCode_2010.xlsx`.

- Add heatmaps from Power BI Store.
- Load the data into Power BI.
- Use the heat map to see the distribution of data ie where is the data mostly collected from/ which areas?

**Hint**: In the Location (ID) section use the zip code column and the Values section, use the population column. Make sure that the aggregation on Population is Sum function.

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 2

> :clock10: 10 min (+ 10 min Review)

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 3 </summary>
  
<br>

You have read about different visualizations. Explore other visualizations from visualizations Pane. Use the Financials table to plot the charts.

</details>

<br><br>

## Additional Resources

<br>

- [How to choose the right data visualization types](https://www.datapine.com/blog/how-to-choose-the-right-data-visualization-types/)
- [Choosing the right visualization](https://flourish.studio/2018/09/28/choosing-the-right-visualisation/)
