<!-- # Lesson 8.1 - Introduction to DAX -->

### Lesson Overview

<br>

In this lesson, students will learn how to with DAX (data analysis expressions) and see how they can be used to create advanced analysis and visualization. The students will learn to use different functions including mathematical, text, and date time functions.

<br><br>

### Learning Objectives

<br>

By the end of this lesson, students will be able to:

- Use DAX to create complex calculated fields,
- Use different functions and dynamic measures that make PowerBI a powerful BI tool.

<br><br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 1

> :clock10: 10 min (+ 10 min Review)

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 1 </summary>

<br>

For this activity use the `financial_sample.xlsx` file. Load this file into Power BI. Table "Financials" has a few columns that have information as strings. Using the data in this table answer the following question:

- What is the number of Unique values in each of these columns and what are those values?

For example, column "Segment" has 5 distinct values. Those values are Government, MidMarket, Small Business, Enterprise, and Channel Parters.

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 2

> :clock10: 10 min (+ 10 min Review)

<br>

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 2 </summary>

<br>

In this activity, we will use simple functions to create calculated columns.

1. Create a column called Month that stores that Month Values from the column "Date" in the Financials table.
2. We spoke about IF condition earlier in the lesson.
   - What are nested IF Statements?
   - Can the nested IF else statements be used in Power BI?
   - Can you use a Switch statement to create another column with the name "Month_names" that will use information from the "Month" column to display the actual names of the months?

</details>

<br>

#### :pencil2: Check for Understanding - Class activity 3

> :clock10: 10 min (+ 10 min Review)

<details>
  <summary> Click for Instructions: Activity 3 </summary>

<br>

Demonstrate how you can use text functions in Power BI. What could be some possible use cases of using the text functions? For eg., if we have two separate columns, like First Name and Last Name, we can concatenate the two columns to get the complete name. Another sample use case would be to standardize data for analysis. For eg if there is a column called Gender, and there are typos in the column like M, male, Male, MALE, Mel, etc... This can of information can be standardized. Keep adding more.

</details>

<br><br>

<!-- <br><br>

## Additional Resources

<br>

TBD -->
